task3.md, before:

# Task 3
After installing docker, I was basically lost, I didn't know anything about how the program works. So all I had with me was our best friend **Google**.

Since we had to host two *static websites*, so I decided to simply implement a workflow only with static websites. Since hosting works with a server, I had to find a way to use a server and host the websites on it using docker. So I first tested out with a basic **Hello World** html file and the apache2 image from docker which uses apache web server. This was a fairly easy task since we ran a single website on a single docker. But the main challenge here is to run both websites  from the same container.

So I did the following steps:
1. Create a new directory and clone both the repositories in that directory:

    `$ mkdir saic_test && cd saic_test/`

    `$ git clone git@github.com:Ritam727/kamandprompt.github.io.git`

    `$ git clone git@github.com:Ritam727/SAIC-Website.git`
2. Create a Dockerfile and configure the commands and server to use:

    `$ nano Dockerfile`

    Inside the editor, I wrote the following lines:

    ```
    FROM ubuntu/apache2:2.4-20.04_beta
    COPY SAIC-Website/. /var/www/saic.example.com
    COPY saic.example.com.conf /etc/apache2/sites-available/
    RUN a2dissite 000-default.conf
    RUN a2ensite saic.example.com
    RUN echo '127.0.0.1 saic.example.com' >> /etc/hosts
    COPY kamandprompt.github.io/. /var/www/kp.example.com
    COPY kp.example.com.conf /etc/apache2/sites-available/
    RUN a2ensite kp.example.com
    RUN echo '127.0.0.1 kp.example.com' >> /etc/hosts
    RUN service apache2 start
    ```
3. Create the files mentioned in the Dockerfile and enter the following lines:

    `$ nano saic.example.com.conf`

    Inside the file enter the following lines and save the file:
    
    ```
    <VirtualHost>
        ServerName saic.example.com
        DocumentRoot /var/www/saic.example.com
    </VirtualHost>
    ```

    `$ nano kp.example.com.conf`

    Inside the editor, enter the following lines and save the file:

    ```
    <VirtualHost>
        ServerName kp.example.com
        DocumentRoot /var/www/kp.example.com
    </VirtualHost>
    ```
4. Change the file called etc/hosts in my **local machine**(this step is necessary):

    `$ sudo nano /etc/hosts`

    Add the following lines to the end of the file:

    ```
    127.0.0.1       saic.example.com
    127.0.0.1       kp.example.com
    ```

    This change ensures that the above domains work in the local system.
5. Then I used `build` command to build the *container*.
    
    `$ sudo docker build -t zblaster/saic_test:latest .`

    This builds the image and makes it ready for publication. For running the image:

    `$ sudo docker run -dit --name saic -p 80:80 zblaster/saic_test:latest`

    This command runs the image on port 80 of the above mentioned domains.

**Saic Website**
![Saic Image](/images/task3_saic.png)

We can see that the SAIC website is up and running on `saic.example.com`

**KamandPrompt Website**
![KamandPrompt Image](/images/task3_kp.png)

We can see that the KamandPrompt website is up and running on `kp.example.com`

Then I published the image to [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com):

`$ sudo docker push zblaster/saic_website:latest`

So, if anybody on the internet wants to use it, they can run the docker and then make a few necessary changes to `/etc/hosts` file and they are good to go:

`$ sudo docker run -dit --name <container-name> -p [PORT]:80 zblaster/saic_test:latest`

`$ sudo nano /etc/hosts`

Add the following lines, save the file and close the editor:

```
127.0.0.1       saic.example.com
127.0.0.1       kp.example.com
```

Then the users can check the sites on `saic.example.com:<PORT>` and `kp.example.com:<PORT>`, where `<PORT>` has to be replaced by the port they specified in the command.


---
---


# What I learnt
After completing this challenge, I became a little familiar with docker and docker images, and how most of the static websites are hosted on the internet. Most of the websites run on a server and completing this task, I found myself familiar with how servers are installed and how they work.

# Difficulties faced
After I hosted a basic single website container with docker, I was stuck ( believe me it was for a long time :| ). I couldn't out a way to host multiple websites on the same container. Whenever I searched for something on *Google*, it gave me how to host them on the webservers themselves rather than on docker. So, I had to find out a workaround. I learnt how we set up the apache server for multiple websites using VirtualHost and then applied that indirectly in the docker image.

# References used:
1. A lot of Google searches
2. [Docker documentation](https://docs.docker.com)

Commit message:

Added script and updated solution to task 3

task3.md, after:

# Task 3
After installing docker, I was basically lost, I didn't know anything about how the program works. So all I had with me was our best friend **Google**.

Since we had to host two *static websites*, so I decided to simply implement a workflow only with static websites. Since hosting works with a server, I had to find a way to use a server and host the websites on it using docker. So I first tested out with a basic **Hello World** html file and the apache2 image from docker which uses apache web server. This was a fairly easy task since we ran a single website on a single docker. But the main challenge here is to run both websites  from the same container.

So I did the following steps:
1. Create a new directory and clone both the repositories in that directory:

    `$ mkdir saic_test && cd saic_test/`

    `$ git clone git@github.com:Ritam727/kamandprompt.github.io.git`

    `$ git clone git@github.com:Ritam727/SAIC-Website.git`
2. Create a Dockerfile and configure the commands and server to use:

    `$ nano Dockerfile`

    Inside the editor, I wrote the following lines:

    ```
    FROM ubuntu/apache2:2.4-20.04_beta
    COPY SAIC-Website/. /var/www/saic.example.com
    COPY saic.example.com.conf /etc/apache2/sites-available/
    RUN a2ensite saic.example.com
    COPY kamandprompt.github.io/. /var/www/kp.example.com
    COPY kp.example.com.conf /etc/apache2/sites-available/
    RUN a2ensite kp.example.com
    RUN service apache2 start
    ```
3. Create the files mentioned in the Dockerfile and enter the following lines:

    `$ nano saic.example.com.conf`

    Inside the file enter the following lines and save the file:
    
    ```
    <VirtualHost>
        ServerName saic.example.com
        DocumentRoot /var/www/saic.example.com
    </VirtualHost>
    ```

    `$ nano kp.example.com.conf`

    Inside the editor, enter the following lines and save the file:

    ```
    <VirtualHost>
        ServerName kp.example.com
        DocumentRoot /var/www/kp.example.com
    </VirtualHost>
    ```
4. Change the file called etc/hosts in my **local machine**(this step is necessary):

    `$ sudo nano /etc/hosts`

    Add the following lines to the end of the file:

    ```
    127.0.0.1       saic.example.com
    127.0.0.1       kp.example.com
    ```

    This change ensures that the above domains work in the local system.
5. Then I used `build` command to build the *container*.
    
    `$ sudo docker build -t zblaster/saic_test:latest .`

    This builds the image and makes it ready for publication. For running the image:

    `$ sudo docker run -dit --name saic -p 80:80 zblaster/saic_test:latest`

    This command runs the image on port 80 of the above mentioned domains.

**Saic Website**
![Saic Image](/images/task3_saic.png)

We can see that the SAIC website is up and running on `saic.example.com`

**KamandPrompt Website**
![KamandPrompt Image](/images/task3_kp.png)

We can see that the KamandPrompt website is up and running on `kp.example.com`

Then I published the image to [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com):

`$ sudo docker push zblaster/saic_website:latest`

So, if anybody on the internet wants to use it, they can run the docker and then run the script named `add_ip.sh` which can be found in this repo, and they are good to go:

`$ sudo docker run -dit --name <container-name> -p [PORT]:80 zblaster/saic_test:latest`

`$ sudo ./add_ip.sh`

What this script does is quite simple, it maps the 127.0.0.1 ip address with two custom domains, namely saic.example.com and kp.example.com, so the user doesn't have to add these ip addresses manually after starting the container.

Then the users can check the sites on `saic.example.com:<PORT>` and `kp.example.com:<PORT>`, where `<PORT>` has to be replaced by the port they specified in the command.


---
---


# What I learnt
After completing this challenge, I became a little familiar with docker and docker images, and how most of the static websites are hosted on the internet. Most of the websites run on a server and completing this task, I found myself familiar with how servers are installed and how they work.

# Difficulties faced
After I hosted a basic single website container with docker, I was stuck ( believe me it was for a long time :| ). I couldn't out a way to host multiple websites on the same container. Whenever I searched for something on *Google*, it gave me how to host them on the webservers themselves rather than on docker. So, I had to find out a workaround. I learnt how we set up the apache server for multiple websites using VirtualHost and then applied that indirectly in the docker image.

# References used:
1. A lot of Google searches
2. [Docker documentation](https://docs.docker.com)
